- [Instructor] So let's pick up from where we left off.
We have coded the LoginServlet.
Now, let's go to the login.jsp
and also display this message that we have coded out here.
Okay, so let's go to login.jsp, let me open that for you,
and let's come down.
So this is the login form,
and we are going to display that error message
in case it's an invalid login right
out here on line number 44.
Now, how am I going to do that?
I'm going to use a simple scriptlet element
and say that if request,
so I'm going to use the implicit object of jsp,
and I'm going to say if request.getAttribute
I get anything as an error.
So let's say if it is not null,
then I'm going to go ahead and display that error message.
So I'm going to say an expression element
and just take this again and assign it.
So whatever is there inside
that attribute of error, we'll get displayed.
Let me put also a quickly here to break the line.
And yeah, so that's what we're going to do.
And of course, let's end the if condition,
so let's put that scriptlet element again,
just to end this if condition, right?
So if we are going to get an error,
we'll just display that error,
otherwise we are fine, right?
Okay, now the next chunk is
we have to device the filter class,
so let's go ahead.
I've already made a class called AuthenticationFilter
inside the filters folder on your project structure,
and now this is supposed
to be implementing the filter interface,
which is of course going to come from javax.servlet package,
and it is implementing an interface,
which means we will have
to add all the unimplemented methods.
So let's do that.
There you go.
So there's destroy, there's doFilter and there's init.
Now, init and destroy are part
of the lifecycle of this filter.
So any kind of initialization and cleanup activity
that you want to put in for this filter can go
into the init and destroy methods respectively.
If you look at the method of init,
the signature looks like this,
it's init, public, does not return anything
and has got a parameter of FilterConfig.
So FilterConfig is that API,
which is used to pass configuration information
to this filter.
So let's say your filter wants
to do any kind of pre-processing, post-processing logic,
for which it needs some kind of configuration information.
You can fetch it through the FilterConfig parameter.
And destroy is merely the place for the cleanup activity,
so you can just go and close all your resources
inside the destroy method.
The important thing here is this, the doFilter API,
which is at the heart of the filter.
It is going to hold all your filter logic,
and now let's inspect the signature of that method first.
It is public, does not return anything,
and it has got parameters
of ServletRequest and ServletResponse.
So you see that they are generic parameters,
they're not your HttpServletRequest and HttpServletResponse.
That is essentially
because the filter component has been designed,
so that it can fit into any kind
of protocol-independent application.
It does not have to be restricted only for HTTP protocol.
That's why they are generic there.
And the third parameter is the FilterChain,
which is of course the one that is going
to help you invoke the chain of filters
and then subsequently the servlet, okay?
So this is the doFilter method,
and let's go and start doing things here.
So what we are essentially going to do
as a part of this method is
we are going to get the session.
We are going to check whether you get an attribute
in the session of username,
and if you do get a valid value for username,
then we are good, and we'll allow the entry
into the servlet that comes after this.
However, if we do not get any username,
then there's a problem,
so either it was a malicious access,
or the session timed out.
So we'll just go back to the login page, okay?
Now, the first thing that we have to do is
you have the ServletRequest,
we are dealing with HttpServletRequest,
so let's quickly cast it.
So I'm going to take a reference of HttpServletRequest,
and I'm going to assign the ServletRequest parameter
to this, but that, I'll have to cast now.
Right, so there we are,
we have our request object ready with us.
Now, there's an important check that we have to do here.
As we have discussed in the previous video,
we are going to make this check only
for those couple of URLs,
which are very specific to the login use case, right?
Because other URLs you can access even without a login.
This is a very subjective requirement
that I have for my application.
In your project and in your application
you can choose as to where are the points
where you want to restrict the access.
So it's completely dependent
upon the requirement of the application, okay?
So, let's go ahead and do that check.
Now, that check can be done like this.
I'm going to take that request object
and say getrequestURI.
If you recall in one of our previous videos,
we've already seen this API,
and it returns us the part of the URL
from the protocol name up to the query string.
So I'm going to say if this startsWith,
and let's read the relative part of that URL,
so that's HPlusSample/orderHistory, okay?
So that's one of the hyperlinks that we have,
and you can put an or check here,
you can say request.getRequestURI().startsWith,
and you can get the other URL here,
so that's HPlusSample,
and then you'll have getProfileDetails.
So those are the URL patterns
that we have for the orderHistory and the getProfileDetails.
So I'll do one thing, I'll just press an Enter here,
so that it becomes easy to read, right.
Okay, so now that we have this if condition ready with us,
the code that we're going to insert inside this if-block,
let's take a look at it in the next video.